docs/building/resource_listing.md, before:

# Resource Listing

Our navigation needs to list the available examples.
Equally, we need a cleaner way to extract the data from an example.
In this step, we make "resource" objects for various models: page, example, contributor.
We'll leave page and contributor for the next step.

Big ideas: A standard model helps us with all the representations of an example.

## What's an Example?

We'll start with, of course, tests.
This time in `test_resources`.
Let's write `test_example` and see if we can correctly construct an instance.
It will need all the bits the template relies on.

Our resource implementation will use dataclasses, with a base `Resource`.
We'll use `__post_init__` to fill in the bits by opening the file.
Also, as "keys", we'll use a `PurePath` scheme to name/id each example.

To help testing and to keep `__post_init__` dead-simple, we move most of the logic to easily-testable helpers.

## Gathering the Resources

We'll make a "resource dB" available at startup with the examples.
For now, we'll do a `Resources` dataclass with an examples field as `dict[PurePath, Example]`.
Later, we'll add fields for pages and contributors.

First a test, of course, to see if `get_resources` returns a `Resources.examples` with `PurePath("hello_world")` mapping to an `Example`.

We then write the `resources.get_resources` function that generates a populated `Resources`.

## Listing Examples

Now that we have the listing of examples, we head back to `app.py` and put it to work.

- Get the "database"
- Make /examples/index.html
- List them there

Commit message:

Add lifespan function and refactor test to get TestClient from fixture.

docs/building/resource_listing.md, after:

# Resource Listing

Our navigation needs to list the available examples.
Equally, we need a cleaner way to extract the data from an example.
In this step, we make "resource" objects for various models: page, example, contributor.
We'll leave page and contributor for the next step.

Big ideas: A standard model helps us with all the representations of an example.

## What's an Example?

We'll start with, of course, tests.
This time in `test_resources`.
Let's write `test_example` and see if we can correctly construct an instance.
It will need all the bits the template relies on.

Our resource implementation will use dataclasses, with a base `Resource`.
We'll use `__post_init__` to fill in the bits by opening the file.
Also, as "keys", we'll use a `PurePath` scheme to name/id each example.

To help testing and to keep `__post_init__` dead-simple, we move most of the logic to easily-testable helpers.

## Gathering the Resources

We'll make a "resource dB" available at startup with the examples.
For now, we'll do a `Resources` dataclass with an examples field as `dict[PurePath, Example]`.
Later, we'll add fields for pages and contributors.

First a test, of course, to see if `get_resources` returns a `Resources.examples` with `PurePath("hello_world")` mapping to an `Example`.

We then write the `resources.get_resources` function that generates a populated `Resources`.

## Listing Examples

Now that we have the listing of examples, we head back to `app.py` and put it to work.
We'll use Starlette's "lifespan" support to:

- Register a startup function which...
- Runs `get_resources` and...
- Assigns to `app.state.resources`

We'll then change the `examples` view to get the resource from `request.app.state.resources`.

When we do this, though, `TestClient` breaks.
It doesn't ordinarily run the lifecycle methods.
Instead, we need to use the [context manager](https://www.starlette.io/events/#running-event-handlers-in-tests).
We do this, and along the way, refactor the tests to inject the test_client.

We then add a `/examples` view, starting with a test of course.
This uses an `examples.jinja2` template.
We wire this up into the navbar and have the test ensure that it is there.


- Get the "database"
- Make /examples/index.html
- List them there
